{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red90\green90\blue90;}
\viewkind4\uc1
\pard\sa0\sl240\slmult1\qc\f1\b\fs32 VoteRight \endash  One-Page Summary for Counsel\par
\pard\sa240\sl240\slmult1\qc\f0\i\fs20\cf2 Prepared ahead of the July 28, 2026 consultation. Full checklist, if useful:\line
github.com/dpimatrix/VoteRight/blob/main/docs/COUNSEL-REVIEW.md\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\ql\i0\fs22\cf1

\f1\b\fs24 What it is\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\b0\fs22
VoteRight is a nonpartisan civic-information platform, currently piloting in Montgomery County, Maryland. Voters state their own policy priorities in their own words; candidates for county office are matched against those priorities using \b sourced positions and public voting records only\b0  \endash  never editorial opinion, never AI-generated claims about a person. Nothing about a real, named candidate is ever published without a citation to a public record (an official roll-call vote, a campaign statement, a government filing).\par

\f1\b\fs24 What's already built and live\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\b0\fs22
The platform runs on real 2026 Montgomery County data today: the actual candidates for every countywide and district office, 1,925 real recorded council votes, and real campaign-finance filings \endash  all publicly viewable, though the URL is not yet promoted. No alignment score, integrity claim, or characterization of any real candidate has been published. That's exactly what this consultation is about.\par

\f1\b\fs24 The one question that matters most today\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\b0\fs22
\b May we publicly display alignment scores \endash  how well a candidate's record matches a voter's stated priorities \endash  for real candidates?\b0  The scoring engine and its safeguards are fully built:\par
\pard\fi-240\li480\sa80\sl276\slmult1\bullet\tab Scores display as \b labeled bands\b0  ("strong match," "leans opposed"), never raw numeric scores presented as precise measurement.\par
\bullet\tab Every input is a \b human-confirmed citation\b0  to an actual public record \endash  a recorded vote, a campaign statement \endash  never an inference or an AI-generated characterization.\par
\bullet\tab If a candidate hasn't taken enough public positions to score fairly, the platform \b says so explicitly\b0  and withholds a score rather than guess.\par
\bullet\tab A \b standing audit program\b0  periodically checks the scoring isn't systematically biased toward any party or ideology, with published results.\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\li0
Given that design, is displaying these scores a defamation or election-law problem under Maryland law \endash  and if so, what specifically would need to change?\par

\f1\b\fs24 Second question, if time allows\par
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\b0\fs22
We've drafted a policy questionnaire to send \b identically to every candidate in a race, on the same day\b0 , with answers published verbatim and a standing right of reply. Any coordination or campaign-finance concern with a civic platform doing this?\par

\f1\b\fs24 One practical note\par
\pard\sa0\sl276\slmult1\f0\b0\fs22
This is an independent, self-funded project at pilot scale. I'd like to scope today's consultation tightly and would appreciate a flat fee or not-to-exceed estimate for any written opinion that follows, rather than open-ended hourly billing.\par
}
